- CLAIRE: Previously...
- Where is the gold?
The Silkie
from the sea.
Are you sure the patrol
caught sight of him here?
Yes. sir.
Thought they saw him
swimming out to the islands.
CLAIRE:
Did you ever fall in love
with anyone else after I left?
No. Sassenach.
I never loved anyone but you.
So good to see you.
IAN: Jenny and I.
we grieved of you for years.
It's Young Ian.
He's run off again.
IAN: Have you seen him?
- No.
CLAIRE: Since when do you lie
to your family?
JAMIE: I'm the only one
teaching him
- the ways of the world.
- Who the hell are you?
Ah!
Your uncle's been a busy man.
But inciting sedition?
Leave! Now!
Please bring Young Ian home.
I'll take the lad home
to Lallybroch.
WOMAN: ♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪ Billow and breeze ♪
♪ Islands and seas ♪
♪ Mountains of rain and sun ♪
♪ All that was good ♪
♪ All that was fair ♪
♪ All that was me ♪
♪ Is gone ♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪♪
*OUTLANDER*
Season 03  Episode 08
♪♪
Episode Title: "First Wife"
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
♪♪ Pensive music...
♪♪
CLAIRE: Here I was.
at the place
that had been imprinted forever
in my head and on my heart.
It was home once.
It didn't appear
that anything had changed.
but somehow.
nothing felt the same.
[ clicks tongue ]
Never thought I'd see ye
grace my front step again.
Me neither.
When Ian said
ye were still alive.
ye might have knocked me down
with a feather.
I-I know it...
It must be quite a shock.
But here I am.
Here ye are.
Well. you look well.
How are the children?
Grown now.
Some wi' bairns of their own.
Ye had me worried half to death.
I dinna mean
to worry ye. but...
IAN: Better get inside. lad.
before your tongue gets ye
in more trouble.
♪♪
IAN: Jamie. why did ye not just
tell me he was wi' you?
Your sister was worried sick!
YOUNG IAN: Because if he had.
ye'd have brought me back home.
JENNY: Aye. he'd have
brought ye home where ye belong.
Feeding chickens. when I could
be in the city earning a wage?
So that's what ye were doing?
Earning a wage. eh?
Aye. and I was good at it too!
Fergus said so.
Said I was a natural.
I sold 20 cask of brandy
before we were forced to flee
after the fire.
What fire?
And why did you have to flee?
You had my son sellin' liquor
and consortin' with criminals?
[ sighs ]
I told you I would look out
for the boy. and I did.
Then there was a wee fire
at the print shop.
IAN: Wee?
Ye wouldna be standing here
if it was wee.
There's nothing left then?
So that's why ye're home.
tail dragging.
And wi' a stray.
Who's drop back into our lives
after 20 years
as though nothing's changed.
Everything was fine
in Edinburgh. Janet.
Then an agent of the Crown
started extorting me.
Sent his ruffian after Claire.
Auntie Claire killed him.
Killed him good.
♪♪ Suspenseful music...
♪♪♪
Outside. Now.
[ sighs ]
And you better be
where I can find you
when it's time
for your thrashin'.
♪♪
You killed a man
in front of my boy?
He wasn't there
when it happened.
I had no choice.
Th-the man attacked me.
CLAIRE: I was defending myself.
But there's more to it
than just...
JENNY: Oh. well. then.
mebbe we should all gather
around the fire.
I mean. if we're to listen
to a tall tale.
Ye do not complain when I
send you money every month.
and you know fine well
it doesn't come
from printing copies
o' the Psalms.
JENNY: Aye. I ken
how you make your money.
but that's you. brother.
You could have taught young Ian
the printing trade.
not how to be a criminal.
JAMIE: I promise ye.
I treated him
as if he was my own son.
IAN: Aye.
Then ye can punish him
as yer own.
♪♪
Mebbe there's another way
he can make it up to ye.
Och.
I hate this.
Stinks like the devil's arse.
If Ma hears yer cursin'...
No one likes
a wee clype. Janet.
You're getting covered
with muck.
Well. you're covered
with foxtails. so there.
'Tis no fair.
Ye run away.
and ye don't even get yer thrashin'.
This is a boy's task.
Matthew should be doing this.
I'd rather get a thrashin'.
You've even got muck
'round yer mouth.
Oh. it isna muck.
It's whiskers.
Whiskers?
You?
- Aye.
- Ha!
Ye may have been right.
As were you.
I shoulda sent word.
told ye he was with me.
and I didn't.
I'm sorry.
It's only that the lad
loves ye so. Jamie.
IAN: He follows ye around
like a pup.
hanging on yer every word.
[ ♪♪ Pensive music ]
♪♪
GIRL: Henry!
♪
Hey!
Give it back!
Henry!
JENNY: Och! Ye wee devils!
That'll be your supper then.
You certainly have
a full house.
Hello.
I'm Claire.
This is Angus and Anthony.
Oh. it's a pleasure
to meet both of you
fine young gentlemen.
Go on.
They're Maggie's.
Ye remember holding Maggie
in this very room?
Of course.
You were so certain
she was going to be a boy.
Strange to think
she's old enough
to have children
of her own now.
Eh. well. that's what happens
when 20 years go by.
I heard we had visitors.
I'm James Murray.
[ baby babbles ]
[ chuckles ]
Wee Jamie.
Well. you're certainly
not so "wee" anymore.
The last time I saw you.
you were barely tall enough
to see over the top
of a washtub.
Claire used to live
in Lallybroch
when you were
about Matthew's age.
Our Jamie here
is now husband to Joan
and father to Henry. Matthew.
Caroline. and new wee Benjamin.
[ baby fusses ]
I'll away out
and see my uncle then.
[ baby crying ]
Och. he's wet himself.
Can I help?
Dinna want to bewilder the bairn
wi' a strange face. now.
[ baby crying ]
Young Ian's made enough dall
for a month's supply of fuel.
The lad's paying for his crimes.
Our father woulda had ye
over the gate.
Aye. but a thrashing's not
the only way to teach a lesson.
Ye're an authority
on raising bairns now?
No.
No. but I am
an authority
on being a 16-year-old lad
that lives on a farm.
Ye treat him as a child.
but he's a man now.
[ scoffs ]
Ye ought to give him
a taste of freedom.
while he still thinks
it's yours to give.
[ inhales deeply ]
Listen to you.
telling me what I should do.
Ye must ken it's a mortal sin
to take another wife
while the first
still walks the earth.
I would never have taken a bride
if I thought
Claire was still alive.
Since ye believed her
to be dead.
why didn't ye share
yer grief wi' me?
I barely wanted to breathe.
let alone speak of it.
I ken.
But ye must speak of it now.
I need to know what happened.
♪♪ Soft tense music...
♪
I was prepared to die
on the battlefield at Culloden.
With me dead.
it would've been dangerous
for Claire to stay. so...
So I arranged for her
to hide at an inn.
Gave her money
for safe passage to the Colonies
after things had settled down.
Later. I heard the British
went through the village.
killing everyone...
Man. woman. and child.
But she got away?
♪
Aye.
She thought I'd died in battle.
So she boarded a ship
to the Colonies.
I didna ken it at the time.
I sat on these very steps
watchin' this very road
with Claire
when you were taken
by the redcoats.
When you didna come home.
we rode together to find you.
The Claire I kent would never
have stopped looking for you.
♪♪
JAMIE:
We could build a cottage.
on the western edge of the land.
We could make
a life here. Claire.
Except that Jenny can barely
stand the sight of me.
Yet. perhaps...
perhaps we should
tell her the truth.
[ scoffs ]
We say ye traveled
from another time.
ye may as well convince her
ye're a mermaid.
Murtagh understood.
That was a chance
we had to take
wi' a... a man
that's been out in the world.
Jenny has never left this farm.
We're always at loggerheads.
She'll be full of questions
we have no answers for.
But if I don't tell her
the truth. then...
there will always be
this wall between us.
Jenny casts a very warm light
on those that she trusts
and a very cold shadow
on those that she doesn't.
Aye.
Sometimes...
I still canna believe
ye're truly here.
I went searching for ye...
once.
The day I escaped Ardsmuir.
You escaped?
Aye.
There was a man
named Duncan Kerr.
Claimed there was treasure
hidden on an island.
He was fevered.
Kent he was dying.
It was his only chance
to tell someone
he thought he could trust.
His last words
were that the treasure
was guarded
by a buidseach bàn.
La dame blanche.
A white witch.
My heart...
Almost stopped
when he said it.
I...
I thought maybe you'd returned.
that you were out there.
♪♪
JAMIE: There are hundreds
of isles all down the coast.
but only one
where the selchs live.
Silkie Island.
♪♪ Dramatic music...
♪♪
I swam to it.
Out of my mind with cold.
♪♪
[ panting ]
[ grunts ]
Claire.
Claire! Claire!
♪♪
Of course.
I didn't find you there.
♪♪
I realized it was foolish
to think you'd come back.
If he hadna been dead already.
I...
I woulda gone back
and killed Kerr myself.
For giving me hope.
[ grunts softly ]
♪
And then I noticed it.
The MacKenzie crest.
♪
Etched into stone.
just like Kerr had told me.
That's where I found
the treasure.
At least Kerr had been right
about that.
♪♪
The box was full
of ancient coins and gems...
Rubies. emeralds.
three large sapphires.
I took one and gave it
to the governor of the prison.
You were free.
You had the treasure.
Why did you go back
to the prison?
Couldna take it with me.
Besides. the prisoners
needed me.
I was their leader.
I wasn't on an island.
But I was out there.
Wishing you'd come and find me.
Sounds silly. but...
whenever I would hear
birdsong...
I would pretend
it was you talking to me.
Hmm.
Ye ken the...
greylag.
yeah. it mates for life?
You kill a grown one.
out hunting.
you must wait...
For its mate will come to mourn.
Then ye must kill that one too.
otherwise. it will
grieve itself to death...
Calling through the skies
for the lost one.
♪♪
What is it?
Jamie?
Something I've been meaning
to tell ye. Sassenach.
Hasna been easy
keeping it from ye.
I was hoping to speak
to Ned Gowan before I told ye.
[ inhales ] to see if the law
was in our favor.
Ned Gowan is still alive?
It's very complicated.
Ye must listen
wi' all yer heart.
[ door creaks open ]
JOAN: Daddy.
Daddy. who is that woman?
Daddy?
[ footsteps approaching ]
[ suspenseful music ]
Sassenach witch!
JAMIE: Laoghaire. what the...
Laoghaire. what the hell
are you doing here?
Ye're... ye're supposed
to be dead!
How?
How could ye do such a thing
to me. Jamie Fraser?
Slip home behind my back?
Put yer prick in that whore?
- Ma. please. We shouldna be here.
- JAMIE: Be still.
I havena done anything to ye.
JOAN: Daddy!
Ma! Stop!
♪♪
Daddy?
LAOGHAIRE: [ scoffs ]
He didna tell ye?
He's my husband now.
Have ye no shame.
you adulterous bitch?
Go back to the hell
ye came from.
Let me go!
Let the English cunt
stand up for herself!
Get yerself downstairs.
right now.
LAOGHAIRE: Oh. get your hands
off me! Ugh!
Oh. wait here.
LAOGHAIRE: Can't believe
you did this to me!
JAMIE: Laoghaire!
LAOGHAIRE: That woman!
JAMIE: Laoghaire. wait!
LAOGHAIRE: With that witch!
- [ exhales sharply ]
JOAN: Daddy!
[ footsteps retreating ]
♪♪
Who's that woman?
Why'd she upset Ma so?
Well. that woman is Claire.
My wife.
My... first wife.
I thought she was dead.
but by the grace of God.
she came back to me.
I-I planned on telling you
and your sister about her.
but I didna get a chance.
What about Ma?
Well...
I tried very hard
to be a husband to her.
but your mother and I...
We didna have a bond
that keeps people together
forever.
An' ye have that bond
wi' that other woman?
Aye.
Now. ye'll go away...
forever?
Dinna fash. Joanie.
I love you and yer sister.
I'll always look after ye.
I promise.
♪♪ Soft dramatic music...
Now. go and find Marsali.
She'll take ye home to yer ma.
Go on.
♪
She needs ye.
♪♪
[ sobbing softly ]
Claire.
Will ye let me explain?
- It's a little late for that.
- I dinna live with her.
She and the girls live
at Balriggan.
I-I didna think
they'd come here.
It was a great mistake.
the marriage
between Laoghaire and me.
With two children?
That...
took you quite a long time
to figure that out. didn't it?
The lassies arna mine.
I-I'm not the father.
Really?
That little girl with...
the red hair?
[ scoffs ]
Well. there are other redheaded
men in Scotland. Claire.
[ sniffles ]
Look. Laoghaire was a-a-a widow
wi' two bairns when I wed her.
It's been less than two years.
and we've lived apart
most of that time.
Oh. and I suppose that makes it
all right. does it?
It's Laoghaire?
She... she tried
to have me killed!
Well. ye're the one that told me
to be kind to the lass!
[ scoffs ]
I told you to thank her...
not marry her.
Ye're not going anywhere.
You cannot stop me.
You lied to me.
You told me that you never
fell in love with anyone else.
I didna fall in love.
You told me about your son.
Why couldn't you
tell me about this?
Why?
Because I am a coward.
That's why.
I couldna tell ye for fear
I would lose ye. and...
I couldna bear the thought
of losing you again.
I wanted you so badly
that nothing else mattered.
I would sacrifice honor. family.
l-life itself to see you.
to lie with you again.
even though you left me.
Left you?
You forced me to go back!
I would have died gladly
at Culloden with you.
And now you want to blame me
for that?
I dinna blame you for it.
Ye had to go for Brianna's sake.
I c-canna regret that.
But you blame me
for coming back.
No.
Yes.
[ sighs ]
God. no. I...
Do ye know what it is
to live 20 years
wi'out a heart?
To live half a man
and accustom yourself
to exist in the bit
that's left?
Do I know?
Do I know how that feels?
Yes. you bastard. I know!
What did you think.
that I went back to Frank
and lived happily ever after?
Sometimes. I hoped ye did.
And sometimes. I could see it...
Him with you.
day and night.
lying with ye.
taking your body.
holding my bairn!
And God.
I could kill ye for it!
Well. I don't have
to imagine Laoghaire!
Laoghaire?
Christ!
I dinna care about Laoghaire.
and I never have!
Oh. so you would marry a woman
you don't even want
and then just discard her
the second you're done?
No. I'm damned
one way or the other.
If I felt anything for her.
I'm a faithless lecher.
and if I didn't.
I'm a heartless beast!
Well. you should have told me.
And if I had.
ye would've turned on your heel
and left without a word.
But having seen you again.
I would do far worse than lie
to keep you!
♪♪ Dramatic music...
[ grunting ]
Get off me!
[ both grunting ]
- Claire! Claire!
- No!
Claire. I-I love you
and only you.
♪♪
[ both moaning and panting ]
JENNY: Stop it!
Both of ye.
Fightin' and ruttin'
like wild beasts.
and no carin'
if the whole house hears ye!
♪♪
JANET: Would ye like a whisky?
Suppose I could do with one.
Thank you.
I apologize for...
disturbing the household.
I should be apologizin' to you.
I told Auntie Laoghaire
ye were here.
That's why she came.
I didna have it in mind
tae cause such a kebbie-lebbie.
Truly not.
Well. I suppose one of us
would have found out
sooner or later.
Why did you tell her?
Mother told me to.
[ footsteps approaching ]
You told Laoghaire to come?
She's his wife.
I am his wife.
Then why'd ye no try
to find him after the war?
And why'd it take ye 20 years
to come back here?
Because I thought he was dead.
In a way. he was.
Took him an age
to start livin' again.
and now you're back
no more than a week.
and ye've killed a man.
his print shop's razed
to the ground. and he's
on the run from the law.
I suppose that's all my doing?
Well. there's no denyin'
trouble finds my brother.
but ye didna help matters much.
I wanted to come back
to be part of this family again.
Well. family writes letters.
Telling one another
they're alive.
What. d'ye think
we were all just frozen in time
waiting for you to return?
No.
Look. I...
I had another husband
in America.
and it was a matter of survival.
Now. it wasn't easy.
but I had to put
my past behind me
so that I could make
that marriage work.
Does Jamie know?
Yes.
Did ye have any bairns?
No.
I never had children with him.
But when he died.
I decided to come back
to visit Jamie's grave.
to tell him
that I never forgot him.
But instead. I found him alive.
I hear truth in what
ye're tellin' me.
But I can see it in yer eyes.
there's still something
ye're keepin' from me.
I don't know
if I can or even want
to put my trust
in you again.
When a horse breaks its leg.
ye put it out of its misery
because it'll never heal right.
Neither will we.
If my mother was still alive.
this would kill her
all over again.
Jamie's retired to the stables.
and Janet's given Claire
blankets in the guest chamber.
[ stammers ]
This doesna bother you?
Him laying wi' both wives?
He and Laoghaire
are not living as man and wife.
and ye ken it.
He makes a fool of this family.
IAN: Ye're the only one
being foolish.
If there's a pot of shite on
to boil.
ye stir like it's God's work.
Oh. this is my fault then?
D'ye forget I hear
yer prayers every night?
And all ye ask for
is Jamie's happiness.
after all the sorrows he's seen.
and here he is.
but ye canna let him have it.
Does this look like happiness
to you?
♪♪
JAMIE: Claire.
Claire.
JAMIE: Please.
I should never have come back.
Canna take back
those 20 years...
Or the life I've lived.
But I mean
to make things right.
I knew coming back was a risk.
That you could be
a different person.
that we both could be
different people. but...
I'm still the same person
you fell in love with.
"When you tell me something.
let it be the truth.
and I promise you the same."
Those were your words. Jamie.
We could have secrets.
but not lies.
I'm sorry. Claire.
Truly.
♪♪
I've only known
one love in my life.
And that was with you.
LAOGHAIRE:
There's the truth of it then?
[ gun clicks ]
Oh. God. Laoghaire.
Laoghaire.
p-put the pistol down.
No.
I will not just sit at home
and let her walk away with ye.
I've come to protect
what's mine.
This isna Claire's fault.
Time for her to leave us be.
To stay out of our lives.
You and I have not dwelt
in the same house
for... many a month.
Mebbe it wasna perfect.
but you were mine.
If not under my roof.
ye provided for me and...
[ both scream ]
JAMIE: [ groans ]
CLAIRE: [ grunts ]
Jamie!
- Aah!
- Get away from him!
JAMIE: [ groaning ]
- [ crying ]
Jamie!
CLAIRE:
Help me get him onto the table.
Och. what's a few more scars?
Leave me be.
I'm just fine.
Get me some alcohol. please.
Here.
Take this off.
[ groaning ]
Take your shirt off.
[ indistinct chatter ]
[ grunting ]
Oh. dear God.
Who did this?
Laoghaire.
It's nothing Claire canna fix.
I'll get clean towels
and bandages.
Go get my medical kit.
It's in my bag in the courtyard.
Yeah.
Can you get hot water
and see if you can find
an apron?
Aye.
It's only bird shot.
Nothing serious.
Have you forgot
what I told you about germs?
Aye. thank you.
- I'll help my father.
- Here.
I'm going to have to dig
those pellets out.
- Ah.
- Mm.
[ both panting ]
- Lie down.
- Mm.
♪
[ grunts ]
[ pellet clinks ]
♪
Those're very fancy knives
ye've got there. Auntie.
I. uh. I knew a very fine cutler
in the Colonies.
CLAIRE: Mm.
JAMIE: [ grunts softly ]
♪
[ pellet clinks ]
All right. this is the one
I'm worried about.
If the pellets penetrated
the artery.
then you'll bleed to death.
and there'll be nothing
I can do about it.
♪♪
[ groans ]
[ cork squeaks and pops ]
[ softly grunts ]
♪♪
JAMIE: [ grunts ]
[ grunts ]
♪♪
CLAIRE: [ exhales sharply ]
[ sighs ]
Did it penetrate the... artery?
No.
He was very lucky.
[ sighs ]
[ cork squeaks and pops ]
♪♪
Auntie.
Eh. he has enough alcohol
for now.
- Thank you.
- It's not for Uncle Jamie.
It's for you. Auntie.
[ cork squeaks and pops ]
You're the only one
who calls me that.
[ cork squeaks ]
♪♪ Soft dramatic music...
♪♪
Uncle Jamie's lucky
you're here.
♪♪
JAMIE: [ sighs ]
[ grunts softly ]
She made a nice Swiss cheese
of your arm.
I dinna ken
what Swiss cheese is.
but if it looks like that.
I wouldna want it on my bread.
Well. the pellets are out.
and your artery's intact.
I need a whisky.
You've had enough.
You need liquids.
Water or broth.
Whisky's a liquid. no?
No.
Here.
Drink this.
I'll never understand
what you saw in that woman.
Well. she wasna toting a pistol
when I chanced upon her again.
That's it?
You truly wish to hear?
You won't get angry?
I haven't stopped being angry.
So you might as well
explain yourself.
I'd been away so long.
When I returned from Helwater.
from England.
everything was... different.
Jenny's bairns
didn't recognize me.
I was a ghost.
If ye ken what I mean.
Yes... I do.
I was here...
but I wasna home.
[ grunts softly ]
I suppose I was lonely.
It was my first Hogmanay
at Lallybroch
since I was a lad.
Hee-yo!
JAMIE: Everything about
Lallybroch was shining. warm.
Jenny had dressed the parlor.
Never seen it so bonny.
The fiddler
was by the window there.
playing jigs and reels.
Every table laden
wi' food. drink.
I could feel
my father and mother there
and... my brother Willie.
I was filled with joy and
loneliness at the same time.
[ cheering ]
♪♪
JOAN: Do you like figs?
[ girls giggle ]
Aye.
Thank you.
[ laughter ]
Would you like to dance?
[ cheering ]
It's been a very long time
since I tried.
We can teach you.
[ girls chuckling ]
[ festive violin music ]
[ girls laugh ]
♪♪
[ cheering ]
[ girls giggling ]
♪♪ Sentimental music. ..
♪♪
JAMIE: After a few moments.
my heart felt lighter.
The music wrapped around me.
and I was laughing.
I realized I hadna truly
laughed since that last time...
well. the last time
I was with you.
♪♪ Festive violin music...
[ laughter and chatter ]
[ cheers and applause ]
[ indistinct chatter ]
Whew!
[ festive violin music ]
Ye're a bonny dancer.
- Thank you. So are you.
- Ha!
Ye've fair worked up
my appetite.
[ chuckles ]
You Cousin Aileen's daughters?
No. Our mother
is Mistress MacKimmie.
♪♪
♪♪ Dramatic music...
JAMIE: So there she was.
Twice widowed and two bairns
aching for a father.
That was plain enough.
I found something
to fill the hole I had in me.
Jenny kent it as well.
Urged me to make the match.
I wanted to be a...
a father. a husband...
all the things I thought
the future held
when I was with you.
All the things I had to forget
when I said good-bye to you
at the stones.
To care for Willie or Brianna...
Watch them grow up.
to show them how to be
in the world.
I thought
if I married Laoghaire.
I could have all those things.
And did you?
My fondness
for Marsali and Joan grew.
It was a very special time
for me.
And not always easy...
[ grunts softly ]
[ exhales and grunts ]
But...
it was all right.
[ groans softly ]
[ sighs ]
So then what happened?
How did you end up
living in Edinburgh?
There were days...
weeks where she
wouldn't speak with me.
To be honest.
I-I didn't mind that.
Meant we wouldn't be fighting
over this or that.
[ sighs and grunts ]
I tried to be gentle wi' her.
but it was no use.
Maybe it was
her first husband. Hugh.
or... her second husband. Simon.
Well. nobody kens what happens
in the marriage bed.
She was hurt.
I could see the fear
in her eyes.
So I left.
♪♪ Somber music...
I couldn't bear
the thought of...
someone being afraid
of my touch.
♪♪
Christ...
you're burning up.
Huh?
Why on earth
didn't you say something?
Huh.
I thought
it was the heat of shame.
If you won't stay with me.
then I'd rather die
and be done with it
if that's all the same with you.
I'm not going to let you die.
tempted as I might be.
[ objects clinking ]
[ panting softly ]
What in God's name is that?
Something that will help
bring down your fever.
Now. roll over
onto your right side.
Uh...
[ grunts ]
Yeah. that...
that. uh.
that looks mighty sharp.
It is. so you better
hold still and relax.
Look. will ye please explain
why jabbing needles
in my arse
is going to help my arm?
Because germs are no match
for penicillin.
[ grunts softly ]
[ footsteps approaching ]
I had a vision of ye. ye ken.
When Jamie wed Laoghaire.
them standing by the altar.
ye were there wi' them.
standin' betwixt him
and Laoghaire.
I didna ken who ye were or what.
We didna know
your people or your place.
Even when Jamie told me
you might tell me things
that might no make any sense.
I didna question it.
Ye said plant potatoes.
I did as told.
The crop kept us alive
for more than one winter
after Culloden.
You saved us.
and I never asked ye
about any of it. did I?
Jamie chose ye.
That was enough.
But it's not enough now.
is it?
I suppose ye'll never
tell me the full story.
What I can tell you...
is that I love your brother
very much.
I never forgot him.
Or any of you.
I never stopped wearing
his wedding ring.
You were a sister to me.
♪♪ Pensive music...
♪♪
I loved you too. Jenny.
Still do.
I'm only asking
for a second chance.
♪♪
- [ gasps ]
- Oh. my dear.
Is it truly you?
Oh. Ned!
[ laughs ]
Oh. w-what are you doing here?
Well. I've-I've come
to speak to your husband.
Oh!
You're-you're a feast
for these old eyes.
[ both chuckle ]
Pardon me.
I'm...
I'm a trifle overcome.
You look exactly the same.
What is your secret?
Well. I never married.
[ laughs ]
Well. with the return
of the first Mrs. James Fraser.
legally. the marriage
to Laoghaire MacKimmie
is invalid.
Eh. you'll have to make
reconciliations
with the Church. mind ye.
Oh. it's a price
I'm willing to pay.
Funny you should mention that.
Laoghaire has made a complaint
to the Justice of the Peace.
uh. for distress
and loss of support.
How could she do that?
"nor hell a fury
like a woman scorned."
Hm.
But she shot him.
Indeed. and in the Highlands.
as we know.
Disarming Act means
that owning a firearm
is a criminal offense.
NED: Now.
where is the weapon now?
Young Jamie has it hidden
in the stables.
Any way of proving
that it belongs to Laoghaire?
Well. besides myself and Claire
bearing witness
and the five holes
in my arm... no.
Well. uh.
if it proceeds to trial
and you're summoned to court.
she may be indicted.
Uh. we could arrange
for the weapon
to be turned over
to the British.
And what would happen to her?
If found guilty.
she could be transported
to the Colonies.
Virginia. most likely.
I do hear Richmond is nice
this time of year.
Hmm.
Indeed.
No.
I won't turn the pistol over.
But she must be punished
for this.
JAMIE: Aye. you're right.
Laoghaire deserves
to be punished.
but... I willna do it
to the girls.
They're already losing a father.
I-I won't have them lose
a mother as well.
What does Laoghaire want?
Well. I believe her chief desire
is to have you castrated
and your bollocks mounted
on her wall.
but I suspect that she may
be amenable to alimony.
How much?
[ quill clinks inkwell ]
20 pounds?
That's two years' wages!
And 10 pounds a year to maintain
a household for the girls
until they're properly wed.
That's an outrageous sum.
[ scoffs ]
Aye. I ken.
But I wo... I won't put
that burden on you.
Where do ye intend
to get the money to pay her?
There's a place I know.
There's a box
full of ancient coins...
on Silkie Island.
I swam there once.
JAMIE: Maybe I could go back
and get it.
CLAIRE: You can't swim anywhere.
not until that arm's healed.
YOUNG IAN: How far is it?
Mebbe a quarter mile.
Aye.
I can swim that.
I'm a better swimmer
than either of my brothers.
JENNY: Away you go.
You can bring that in later.
Well. what good are ancient
coins in the Highlands?
Laoghaire canna use them
for food and rents.
I'll take them to France.
Cousin Jared will know
how to trade them for sterling.
He's family.
He'll be discreet.
Then I'll bring the proceeds
back for Laoghaire.
I'd also like to take
young Ian to France as well.
if that's all right with you.
- [ sighs ]
JAMIE: He's old enough
to see a bit of the world
outside of Scotland.
You and I had our time
in France. Ian.
Better that than war.
I suppose it's best
we let him have his freedom
while he still thinks
it's ours to give.
You'll take better take care
of him this time. aye?
We will.
♪♪ Dramatic music...
♪♪
You can trust us.
The water must be freezing.
'Tis.
♪♪
JAMIE: It's the current
that's the worst part of it.
♪♪
Ye must surrender to it.
JAMIE: But as ye come nearer
the island.
ye must break free of it
or be carried away
to the New World.
♪♪
Dinna fash.
Ian's a braw swimmer.
♪♪
♪♪ Somber music...
[ spyglass clicks ]
We've barely been alone
since we left Edinburgh.
Now we're the only two people
on this cliff.
and ye canna meet my eye.
♪♪
I'm afraid th-this is...
all a mistake.
♪♪
I'm just not sure
if we belong together anymore.
♪♪
How can ye say that?
I had a life.
We both had lives.
And families.
♪
It wasn't the plan. but...
I didn't hate Boston.
I had a career.
A home.
Friends.
And you had your print shop
in Edinburgh.
It wasn't so bad.
really. was it?
♪♪
Being a printer was naught
compared to being your husband.
♪♪
For 20 years. I was haunted
by the memory of you.
♪♪
The moment I found out
you were alive. I...
♪♪
But ever since
I've arrived back.
it's been... so much harder
than I could ever have imagined.
When has it ever been easy?
♪♪
But I apologized for it.
I've done all I can
to make it right.
Ye belong wi' me.
♪♪
We're mated for life. Sassenach.
Will you risk the man I am
for the sake
of the one ye once knew?
♪♪
Jamie.
Christ.
♪♪ Ominous music...
[ spyglass clicks ]
♪♪
Oh. where's Ian?
JAMIE: There.
Making his way down.
♪♪
JAMIE: Ian! Ian!
Go back!
♪♪
♪♪ Intense music...
Jamie. no!
- You can't! You're hurt!
- [ grunts ]
♪♪
Ian!
Sync corrections  by  srjanapala
♪♪ Somber music...
♪♪
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm